hello this is Pam dinner thank you so
much for tuning to b2b marketing and
more with me this is a place I want to
help you to become a better b2b marketer
I share my experience templates and
know-how to help you think strategically
do your job better hopefully by doing
that you can get promoted faster for
today what I really want to talk about
is things strategically when I think
about the word strategic I always
imagine like a politician or a
policymaker
in a big thing tank and they are working
on this huge initiative to change the
climate to boost the economy or to
increase the employment in a society as
a whole but for its strategic thinking
in a context of b2b marketing I want to
make a very concrete and I want to
define that you are able to think
strategically that you can carry a very
interactive and strategic discussion
with your management here are three very
actionable ways that you can do that
number one you need to be able to think
from the perspective of why and the what
not how ok let me explain that to you
and I want to derive that from my own
personal experience my background was
accounting finance and operations so
when somebody tells me to do something
the first intuition that comes to my
mind was you know what how can i
implement that for my management for my
internal stakeholders and for my
customers I don't usually question in
terms of why we have to do it or what
are the benefits but that's not the way
to carry a conversation with your senior
management you need to be able to
explain what are the benefit for the
company and your customers explain to
them in terms of how you reach to a
certain conclusion then you dive into
how how you want to implement it from
time to time when you present something
at that level there's always one or two
senior staff in
immediately dive into how and they
started derail the whole meeting so you
need to kind of pay attention to that
not necessarily answer that how question
right away try to rally everybody get
everybody on the same page on the why
and the what then you can't answer the
question of how number to be able to
communicate the way they understand or
how they are measure and the perfect
example for marketing team is social
media metrics how do we report social
media metrics well the views the lives
retweets the comments
can we actually explained the social
media's impact maybe in the context of a
customer service if your customer
service team is using social media to
drive the conversation engagement to
solve some of the business issues if
they do can you also talk about it in
trans as a part of the social media
report out so you don't just report a
portion of it which is your job you need
to do a little bit more than that you
need to elevate and that does take a lot
of time to actually get the information
I get it at the same time you know this
can be part of the customer services try
to make your management think
holistically and try to show them that
you are not thinking of social media
only on one aspect of it of course when
you do that kind of report out you
gather some other people's input and
dashboard you need to give them credit
number three help senior management
connect the dots a lot of time
explaining digital marketing is hard you
know how hard it is because there is a
different intricacy different marketing
technologies that's working together and
there is a front end of the digital
marketing is back and there's multiple
things that has to tie together it's a
lot of work to explain how digital
marketing actually works when I try to
explain that to the management multiple
times I was like oh my god you know what
if I explain the way it is there's no
way they can't understand I'm gonna put
them to sleep so I usually use a
different analogy I will use like a
sales analogy and to explain what I do
and the great example is email nurturing
and multiple senior manager
just couldn't understand couldn't
understand why the email nurturing takes
so long to actually get started
obviously we have to understand the
segmentation of audience we have to
source the content we have to do some ad
testing before we do official launch it
does take a little bit of time right and
also we need to make sure database is
clean the way I try to explain it is
like okay you know looking on the sales
side we actually have a big meetings
coming up with our key strategic account
say account ABC and how long does it
take to actually put that meeting
together so that to CEOs can mean
probably three weeks we have to position
we have to strategize we have to create
a presentation and then we have to give
our CEOs to talking points you know it
does take a little bit of time to put
the meetings like that together and I
said you know what that same kind of
work applied on the digital marketing we
have to actually think through in terms
of what our audience want to see we have
to source the content we have to
position it right it does take time and
effort to do it right also on the email
nurturing stream it's no different then
the sales team prepare for the big
meeting so when I explained it that way
they were like okay I kind of get it by
the way they usually don't remember the
next day and I have to repeat that at
the next meeting
it does happen that's the way it is
right and the education does take a
little bit of time and digital marketing
really doesn't come naturally to them
and I understand so that repetitive
education is very critical so here we
are I'm sharing with you the three ways
that can demonstrate your capability or
your ability to think strategically in
the context of b2b marketing number one
think from the perspective of why and
what not how number two explain the
things or communicate with your senior
management the way they understand or
how they be measure number three help
your senior managers connect the dots so
that's it for today I hope you like the
content if you think the content is
relevant and useful please subscribe
below
if you have any specific comments share
that with me as well or send me a quick
email if you have any questions I love
to hear from you thank you so much for
tuning in to b2b marketing and more with
Pam dinner I will see you next week